docs: Add section for Kiali and distributed tracing OpenShift integration (#328)
istio-ecosystem/sail-operator: docs/README.md

  - [Scraping metrics using the OpenShift monitoring stack](#scraping-metrics-using-the-openshift-monitoring-stack)
  - [Integrating with Kiali](#integrating-with-kiali)
    - [Integrating Kiali with the OpenShift monitoring stack](#integrating-kiali-with-the-openshift-monitoring-stack)

>     - [Integrating Kiali with OpenShift distributed tracing](#integrating-kiali-with-openshift-distributed-tracing)

Reviewer: If you split them up you'll probably need a verification step for Istio which can be 1. generating some traffic and then 2. opening the tracing UI to see traces.

* A Tempo stack is installed and configured
* An instance of an OpenTelemetry collector is already configured in the istio-system namespace
* An Istio instance is created with the `openshift` profile
* An Istio CNI instance is created with the `openshift` profile

*Steps*
1. Configure Istio to enable tracing and include the OpenTelemetry settings:
    ```yaml
    meshConfig:
      enableTracing: true
      extensionProviders:
      - name: otel-tracing
        opentelemetry:
          port: 4317
          service: otel-collector.istio-system.svc.cluster.local 
    ```
The *service* field is the OpenTelemetry collector service in the `istio-system` namespace.

2. Create an Istio telemetry resource to active the OpenTelemetry tracer
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1
    kind: Telemetry
    metadata:
      name: otel-demo
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      tracing:
      - providers:
          - name: otel-tracing
            randomSamplingPercentage: 100
    ```

3. Validate the integration: Generate some traffic

We can [Deploy Bookinfo](#deploy-gateway-and-bookinfo) and generate some traffic.

4. Validate the integration: See the traces in the UI

```sh

> kubectl get routes -n tempo tempo-sample-query-frontend-tempo.apps-crc.testing

Reviewer: This this the actual name of the `route` object? `tempo-sample-query-frontend-tempo.apps-crc.testing`

Reviewer: This part `.apps-crc.testing` seems like a typo?

Author: good catch! Updated now

Congratulations! You should now be able to see your control plane and data plane metrics in the OpenShift Console. Just go to Observe -> Metrics and try the query `istio_requests_total`.

### Configure tracing with OpenShift distributed tracing
This section describes how to setup Istio with OpenShift Distributed Tracing to send distributed traces.

*Prerequisites*
* A Tempo stack is installed and configured
* An instance of an OpenTelemetry collector is already configured in the istio-system namespace

> * An Istio instance is created with the OpenShift profile
> * An Istio CNI instance is created with the OpenShift profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An Istio instance is created with the `openshift` profile
* An Istio CNI instance is created with the `openshift` profile
```

*Steps*
1. Configure Istio to enable tracing and include the OpenTelemetry settings:
    ```yaml
    meshConfig:
      enableTracing: true
      extensionProviders:
      - name: otel-tracing
        opentelemetry:
          port: 4317
          service: otel-collector.istio-system.svc.cluster.local 
    ```
The *service* field is the OpenTelemetry collector service in the `istio-system` namespace.

2. Create an Istio telemetry resource to active the OpenTelemetry tracer
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1
    kind: Telemetry
    metadata:
      name: otel-demo
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      tracing:
      - providers:
          - name: otel-tracing
            randomSamplingPercentage: 100
    ```

3. Validate the integration: Generate some traffic

We can deploy bookinfo and generate some traffic:

```sh
kubectl create ns bookinfo

> kubectl label ns bookinfo istio-injection=enabled

Reviewer: These steps don't actually deploy bookinfo? I think elsewhere we already describe how to deploy bookinfo. Maybe you can just link to that and assume here that you've already deployed it?

Author: Yes, right, it is linked now.

            enabled: true
          url: https://thanos-querier.openshift-monitoring.svc.cluster.local:9091
    ```
#### Integrating Kiali with OpenShift Distributed Tracing
This section describes how to setup Istio and Kiali with OpenShift Distributed Tracing to send and receive distributed traces.

*Prerequisites*
* A Tempo stack is installed and configured
* An instance of an OpenTelemetry collector is already configured in the istio-system namespace
* An Istio instance is created with the OpenShift profile
* An Istio CNI instance is created with the OpenShift profile

*Steps*
1. Setup Istio to include the OpenTelemtry settings:
    ```yaml
    meshConfig:
      enableTracing: true
      extensionProviders:
      - name: otel-tracing
        opentelemetry:
          port: 4317
          service: otel-collector.istio-system.svc.cluster.local 
    ```

> service: The service of the OpenTelemetry collector in the istio-system namespace.

Reviewer: Needs indent

```suggestion
  The *service* field is the OpenTelemetry collector service in the `istio-system` namespace.
```

2. Create an Istio telemetry resource to active the OpenTelemetry tracer
    ```yaml

>     apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1
>     kind: Telemetry
>     metadata:
>     name: otel-demo
>     namespace: istio-system
>     spec:
>     tracing:
>     - providers:
>         - name: otel-tracing
>           randomSamplingPercentage: 100

Reviewer: Needs indent. I think this is right but double check.
```suggestion
    apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1
    kind: Telemetry
    metadata:
      name: otel-demo
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      tracing:
      - providers:
          - name: otel-tracing
            randomSamplingPercentage: 100
```

    ```

> 3. Setup Kiali to access traces in the Tempo frontend: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Setup Kiali to access traces from the Tempo frontend: 
```

    ```yaml
    external_services:
      tracing:
        enabled: true
        provider: tempo
        use_grpc: false
        in_cluster_url: http://tempo-sample-query-frontend.tempo:3200
        url: 'https://tempo-sample-query-frontend-tempo.apps-crc.testing'
    ```

> 4. To see the "View in Tracing" link, Grafana should be enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enable Grafana to see the "View in Tracing" link:
```

Reviewer: Is this editing the same Kiali CR as above? I know one of these steps is "setup tracing" whereas the other is "setup grafana" but would it make sense to combine them so that the user doesn't have to edit the same yaml twice?

    ```yaml
    external_services:
      grafana:
        enabled: true
        url: "http://grafana-istio-system.apps-crc.testing/"
      tracing:
        enabled: true
        provider: tempo
        use_grpc: false
        in_cluster_url: http://tempo-sample-query-frontend.tempo:3200
        url: 'https://tempo-sample-query-frontend-tempo.apps-crc.testing'
        tempo_config:
          org_id: "1"
          datasource_uid: "a8d2ef1c-d31c-4de5-a90b-e7bc5252cd00" 
    ```

> There is a specific section to setup the Grafana datasource in the Tempo config.

Reviewer: Should there be more instructions for this here?

> Now, we should be able to see traces from Kiali.

Reviewer: Can you add a section on what the user should do to see traces in Kiali?
